[narrator]
previously on dark matter.
[three]
who are you?
[both]
i don't know.
Who are you?
I got no idea.
[one] we all woke up
just like you no idea who we are
Or how we got here.
[two] she's an
android.
[the android] we're on course
for a nearby inhabited world.
[mireille]
well you're welcome to resupply
And help yourself to whatever
you need then you best be off.
[six]
why is that?
You wanna be long gone
before the raza get here.
The raza?
Obviously we were meant
to help these people.
The raza is the
name of this ship.
We're not here to
help these people.
We're here to kill them.
No.
That's impossible.
That can't be right.
Can it?
[android]
i recovered the information from
A fragment of the ship's logs
related to the crew list.
There's no reason to doubt its
veracity.
[two]
of course not.
In fact, it all makes
perfect sense now
The raza--
This ship.
But as far as the
miners are concerned:
A race of bloodthirsty aliens--
monsters, come to wipe them out.
[six] but truth is
we're nothing but a bunch of
low-life mercenaries.
[three]
no, we're better than that.
We're also pirates and
smugglers and thieves,
It's a very diversified
portfolio.
You think this is funny?
It's my defense mechanism:
Humor.
That and, apparently, killing
people.
I think we need to
talk about our next move.
Well he's right you know.
Oh listen i don't wanna
be the one to say it,
But if all this stuff is true,
we came here to do a job.
You want to go down to the
planet and kill those people?
No one's killing anyone.
[three] i didn't
say i wanted to kill anyone.
I'm just talking about
the people who hired us.
Ferrous corp.Oration.
Galactic combine.
Exactly.
Not the sort of folks you
wanna disappoint, i'm guessing.
Too bad.
I'm no murderer.
[three] it's funny
cause the screen says otherwise.
Yeah, i don't care what it says.
So have you managed to
uncover anything else?
Unfortunately, the rest
of the data was corrupted.
Well, i suppose that's plenty.
Hell of a lot more than
i wanted to know anyways.
[four]
we all wanted to know.
These are the memories
we left behind,
Death, despair, chaos.
So what?
If they're no longer a part of
us now
Then what does it even matter?
Yeah.
Should i continue my
attempts at data recovery?
Portia?
Don't... Don't call me that.
No computer file is
going to tell me who i am.
Call me two.
Okay two.
¶ music playing ¶
[das/five gasps]
[android]
i'm sorry.
I didn't mean to startle you.
You didn't startle me.
You scared the crap
out of me sneaking up like that.
My stealth subroutines
are very efficient.
Well dial them back--
Or say something next
time you walk into a room.
[android] are you
afraid of them now?
[das]
you think i should be?
They show a history of
violence, mental instability,
Extreme anti-social
behavior, deceit--
What's important is
who they are now.
An admirable attitude.
Also, potentially a very
foolish and dangerous one.
Hey, you're the one
who tried to kill us.
The result of a
programmed directive
That has since been deleted.
Same with them maybe, right?
If it's not fear,
then why are you upset?
What makes you
think i'm upset?
I can see a muscular tension
in your jaw and shoulders.
I can hear a slight increase
In both respiratory rate
and heart rate.
I can smell a distinct shift
in pheromone production--
Okay, okay. I get it.
Look, if you want to know...
...It's because i'm the only
one who's not in the files.
I'm not one of the crew.
So... How did i get
onboard this ship?
At least they know
they belong here.
I'm still just
a big question mark.
[das/five sighs]
There may come a time when
you'll consider yourself lucky
Not to be counted
as a member of this crew.
Well right now, i just wish
i was part of the team.
Oh, and one more thing, maybe
don't go around telling people
You can smell
their pheromones.
It's not gonna
win you any friends.
But i can smell them.
[six]
weapons array, sensors,
Navigation and
critical controls.
Flip these, punch that,
hit these two
And you bring
the engines online.
[three] how do you
know how to fly this thing?
I don't know, i just do.
Huh.
Maybe you do too.
You gotta try it.
[straining] yep...
Wait a minute... That's it.
[air decompressing]
[alarm sounding]
Oh... No, no, no.
Maybe not.
[sighs in frustration]
You know i just
can't concentrate
This whole thing's got
me thinking, that's all.
Yeah, tell me about it.
Which one of us do you
think's got the baddest rep?
What?
Yeah i mean, just based on
what we know about each other,
Which is not a lot
to go on i know,
How would you rank us in
order of most wanted,
From like "super bad-ass"
all the way on down
To "cause for concern."
For instance,
i'd put me in first spot,
You'd slide right there in seco.
Boss lady well she'd be third
on account of her ba'ttitude
And then ol' slashy stabberson .
Pretty boy and the kid
tied for last place
Cause it looks like she's
got a bit of a temper.
You being serious?
You'd rate her higher?
Yeah... Maybe.
This doesn't bother you at all?
What?
The fact that we're
wanted criminals?
That if we get caught we'll
spend the rest of our lives
Locked away, if we're lucky?
The fact that from hereon in,
We'll be the targets
of our former victims
Their friends loved ones
and anyone else looking
To cash in on our bounties,
none of whom, by the way,
We'll see coming because
we don't remember
A thing past yesterday.
Not really.
No-no-no-no-no-no.
Don't-don't-don't don't.
I've been thinking...
Yeah, that's something you
need to get under control.
Those weapons in the cargo hold,
The matching pendants,
at first, i thought it meant
We were the ones who were
supposed to help the miners--
That we were their saviors.
But now i'm wondering if it
means we killed their saviors
And heisted the delivery.
Your point?
If i'm right, ferrous corp..
Isn't gonna let this go.
If we don't finish the job,
they'll just send someone else.
Which is why we
stick to the plan.
The miners get half the
weapons, and a fighting chance.
We can do more.
Go all the way.
Commit to something.
We can fight with them.
That would be suicide.
Not necessarily.
Look if half of what's
in those files is true,
Then we can
handle ourselves.
It also means you could
spend the rest of your life
Doing good deeds and not even
come close to making up for it.
I know what you're trying to
do, and it's not going to work.
You don't want to believe what
those files say you are, fair e.
I don't much want to either.
But i'm not gonna kill myself
Trying to make up for crimes
i don't even remember committin.
We stick to the plan.
And who made you
team leader?
I did by stepping up.
And so did all of you by not
challenging me when i did.
Unless... Unless you've
had a change of heart
And think you
can do a better job?
Didn't think so.
[jace corso/one sighs]
[six]
try that, is it on?
[one]
yeah.
[six]
okay.
[three]
seriously...
[four]
yeah?
...What's with the sword?
It's quicker, more effective
in close quarter combat.
More effective than a gun?
Without a doubt.
You think you could
outdraw me with that thing?
I would have your head cut off
before you could even unholster.
Hey.
I need to talk to you.
Ohh.
[two] look, i may have been
a little hard on you before.
Believe me,
i know how you feel.
We all do.
But 10 minutes after finding
out you used to be a villain
Is not the time
to try to be a hero.
There is no room
for independent action.
We need to stick together
and watch each others' backs.
Do you understand
what i'm saying?
I... Think so.
Once the weapons are delivered
and that shuttle comes back,
I want you on it.
Understood?
Yeah.
Alright.
Safe flight.
And stop staring at my ass.
[mireille] hey, i'm sorry
we couldn't do more for you.
It's just we gave everything
we had to hrothgar.
[one]
don't worry about it.
Well, what are you gonna
tell your employer?
I mean how are you
going to explain--
Intergalactic transport's
a risky business.
Cargo gets misplaced
or stolen all the time.
Insurance'll cover it.
You're good people.
No, we're not.
Of course you are.
You've helped us-- i mean
you probably saved our lives.
I'm beginning to think
it's just the opposite.
By giving you these weapons,
I'm afraid we're just
giving you false hope.
Look... You can't win this.
If you stay here
and fight, you'll die.
But i'm hoping it's
not gonna come to that.
We have help coming,
and more weapons.
[three]
that's the spirit.
Don't let the bastards
get you down.
As for us, we gotta
get back to our spaceship.
[woman] not yet.
At least allow us to thank you.
That bloodthirsty look
in your eyes is all the thanks .
With song and drink!
Well, who doesn't
love a good song huh?
Oh!
Well.
[keypad beeping]
[five]
oh, hey.
I took another look
at that console on the bridge,
But i think it's really fried.
At least until we can
get some spare parts.
Sorry.
Yeah that's okay.
Hey, can i ask
you something?
I know you didn't exactly
Get the answers
you were looking for,
But if you could go back
to when we first woke up,
And not know, would you?
[two sighs heavily]
I suppose i might.
But i have a feeling that not
knowing would just make me
Want to know all over again.
Well, i guess the next big
mystery that needs solving
Is who stole our memories.
No one stole
our memories.
It was an accident.
No it wasn't.
[android] two, you need
to come to the bridge immediate.
[two sighs]
what is it?
Another ship.
It's just dropped out of ftl.
Who is it?
Ferrous corp.Oration destroyer.
They've already
launched a shuttle.
It's headed towards
the planet's surface.
We've got to get
our people off that planet.
Did you contact
the marauder and warn them?
I attempted communication
but received no response.
Shit.
[communication device beeping]
We're being hailed
by the other ship.
Would you like me to--?
Ignore it.
Marauder, this is the raza.
You've got trouble
headed your way.
[radio static]
[two] marauder, do you read?
[radio static continues]
[drinks clanking]
[marcus boone/threel laughing]
[cheering]
We drink their drink,
eat their food,
And then just...
Leave them here to die.
[six] hey, if
you've got another suggestion
That doesn't involve us dying
here with them, i'd love to hea.
Maybe we should
tell them the truth.
What that we're mercenaries
sent here to kill them?
They should know
that no more help is coming.
It won't make a difference.
Maybe not.
But we might.
Don't even think about it.
We're very, very bad people
who've some very bad things,
This is our chance to put
our unique skill set to good us.
We stand alongside these miners
and, when ferrous corp. Comes,
We hurt them,
hurt them so bad
They think twice about
bothering with this planet.
[griffin jones/six chuckles]
[one] what?!
You're nothing
if not predictable.
Two told me you'd say all of th,
practically word for word.
She also said
to do whatever it takes
To bring you back with us,
Including knocking you out
and dragging you back if i have.
Really?
She did ask me not to hit
you in the face though.
[thomas]
ferrous corp. Is here!
Ferrous corp. Is here!
Go, go!
Hey!
Marauder, this is the raza.
Are you there?
We might consider the
possibility that they've already
Encountered
the ferrous corp. Shuttle.
Patch me through
to the destroyer.
Done.
This is the raza.
Please, respond.
Please respond.
This is commander nieman
of the fcs deliverance.
Took you long enough.
Apologies.
What can i do
for you, commander?
Well you can start by telling me
what the hell is going on?
Why you didn't
complete your mission
Or update us on your status?
There were some complications
we had to contend with
But we have everything
under control now.
Please have your shuttle fall b.
Negative, raza.
Contingency plans have been ena.
Again, that won't be
necessary, deliverance.
This is our show.
Not anymore it's not.
Raza, i'm on my way over.
[warning gun fire]
[nassan]
that's far enough!
[guns click]
[man] is that any way to act,
After ferrous corp. Made you
such a generous offer?!
Generous?!
You'd turn us into
slaves on our own land!
One last chance to reconsider!
[one]
whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!
Hold on! Hold on!
Hold on, please!
Hold up.
No one wants a fight here.
You had a job to do, corso.
[jace corso/one panting]
Well, we took some time
to think things through
And decided on a change of plan.
Take your men and leave.
Tell your bosses
we're with these people now.
You can't be serious.
What did they offer you?
You know us.
You know what we're capable of.
Think of the losses.
It's not worth it.
Find another planet.
It's not my call.
I'll have to
take this upstairs.
Fair enough.
[semi-automatic guns firing]
rat-tat-tat-tat
[man painfully yelps]
(guns firing)
[shotgun blasts]
bam-bam-bam
We're under fire!
I repeat, we're under fire!
The mercs have turned,
they're with the miners now!
We need back up!
Shut the hell up.
That actually went better
than i thought it would.
[android]
the shuttle is approaching.
Go.
Hide.
And don't come out
until we tell you it's safe.
Go!
The shuttle is
within weapons range.
We have an advantage
with speed and maneuverability.
But this ship is still
far from fully operational.
Welcome aboard.
[nassan]
hey, you're gonna be fine, here.
[mirelle]
okay. You have medical training?
[six]
uh, yeah... I guess so.
That's great.
We could really
use your expertise.
[three]
nope.
We can't stay.
[one]
of course we can.
Just long enough
to help the injured.
We're leavin right now.
You selfish son-of-a--
[six]
he's right.
It's a long hike
back to the marauder
And there could be
more of them out there.
Wait a minute,
you're going to abandon us?
You got your weapons,
staying was never part of the d.
Neither was killing
those soldiers.
But now you're just
going to leave us here
To deal with the fallout!
Friend, the fallout
would've been so much worse
If we hadn't been here
so... You're welcome.
Please, i mean
you've got a shuttle-- a ship.
[one]
that's right.
And they're at your disposal
if any of you want to leave.
Look you stood,
you made your point.
But now it's time to go.
This is a war you can't win.
Please.
You're all a bunch
of cowards.
All of you.
Hagen, that's enough.
This is our battle
We can't expect
anyone else to fight it for us.
These men risked their lives,
Offered more than we had
any right to expect of them.
We have help coming.
When it gets here, we'll be fin.
We appreciate
all you've done for us.
Good luck.
[das/five panting]
[clicks]
[android] so...
Do either of you
possess offspring?
[nieman] you were hired
to do a job.
[two] like i said,
complications arose.
And continue to
do so apparently.
On my way over,
I received word that we
suffered casualties on the plant
Yeah well i'm sorry
to hear that --
And that your team
was responsible.
Ours is a cutthroat business.
In this sector alone
we're competing
With six other multicorp.S
for planetary resources.
Our major rival,
the mikkei combine,
Have been
particularly aggressive.
The discovery of that
tarium vein is a major coup--
One the company seeks
to start exploiting immediately.
That planet is the only
hospitable world in range.
Then maybe you should've
started with the fair offer
Instead of trying to bully
the miners into submission.
I didn't come here to talk
about what we can do for them.
I came here to discuss
what we could do for you.
I'm listening.
You took payment
in advance,
And then failed
to complete the job.
That's bad business.
Lucky for you
i'm feeling generous today.
I'm willing to call it even.
In exchange for?
Turn this ship around
and leave immediately.
That's it?
Just walk away?
What's about to
happen on that planet--
Well, it would be better
if there were no witnesses.
I still have
people down there.
They made their choice.
They opened fire on
ferrous corp. Personnel,
They have to answer for that.
I suggest you don't
make the same mistake.
If it makes it easier,
i'm willing to throw in a bonus.
...Just for you.
How much?
Let's get the hell off this roc.
Uh, we've got a problem.
What?
The ship... It's not there.
What do you mean
"it's not there"?
I'm telling you,
it's not there.
The raza's gone.
[thomas]
i am so sorry.
We lead you into this.
If you hadn't taken the time
to give us those weapons,
You'd never been
caught down here.
We wanted to help.
Still do.
This isn't your fight.
It is now.
Well, i can't tell a man
how to live his life,
I'm not gonna tell
him how to end it.
Okay we could use
some fresh eyes on the perimete.
Patrol's growing mighty thin.
We have no way
to anticipate when or where
This next attack will come.
Maybe there is.
[door creaks open]
Double-crossing us
was a big mistake.
You and your
friends are gonna die.
How?
Tell me.
How are we going to die?
Choking on your own blood.
Could you be more specific?
We're gonna line you up
and shoot the lucky ones.
The rest, like you, we'll gut.
No.
That's not it.
You could have done that
from the beginning.
Stormed this facility,
execute everyone in it.
You have the men; the resources.
But you didn't.
You hired us to do
your dirty work instead.
Plausible deniability.
A mining colony
wiped out by mercenaries,
That's unfortunate,
but it's not surprising.
A mining colony wiped
out by a corp.Oration.
Well, that's scandalous.
We can make a deal--
You want the miners gone,
Without being directly
implicated in their deaths.
And you wouldn't be here unless
You had a plan to make that hap.
If you let me go i can
guarantee your safety.
Look, i don't
know anything.
You were neither
briefed nor given orders?
Just transported down
here to the planet
And expected to improvise?
I can tell you from experience,
torture doesn't work.
Torture is often ineffective,
even counter-productive.
On the other hand, i personally
find it incredibly cathartic.
[one]
that could work.
Of course it could work... Righ.
They plan to target
your reactor,
Trigger a blast that will
level this entire facility.
[thomas]
it's a mark four fusion reactor.
Standard equipment
for a mining community
About 50 years ago.
Nowadays we can hardly find
spare parts to keep it running.
[one] it's the perfect cover:
Outdated technology,
Ill-equipped miners
who don't know what they're doi.
It's an accident
waiting to happen.
We'll never be able
to hold this position.
Not for long, anyways.
At least we'll die fighting.
¶ rock music ¶
[one]
how we looking keeley?
[keeley]
clear skies.
Good.
Keep us updated.
What's up?
Hey.
I've been thinking.
Yeah?
You're right.
Which one of us?
Both of you.
We're doomed.
Nah, hang on a second.
As much as i'd love to tell you
"i told you so," i don't know.
I kinda like our
chances here guys.
It doesn't matter
how good our defenses are.
At the end of the day,
They got an endless supply
of bodies and bullets.
We don't.
Eventually, they'll wear us dow.
Okay, and what
was i right about?
There might be a way to win thi,
but it's a long shot.
Like you said, we've got
to hit them where it hurts most:
Their bottom line.
Which is what
we're doing here.
No.
Ferrous corp. Doesn't
care about their men.
They'll just get more.
Ships, on the other hand,
are a lot harder to come by.
And a hell of a lot
more expensive.
You saying we
take out their ship?
Yeah.
Oh man.
Well i like the idea in theory,
but it begs the question:
How do we get it down here?
We don't.
We go up there after it.
Or i do anyway,
in the marauder.
I'll target their drive
and that should do it.
Set off a chain
of secondary explosions
That'll rip that ship apart.
And you with it.
Maybe not.
If i punch the marauder's engine
And get clear
of the blast radius--
[one]
that's crazy.
They'll take you down
before you're anywhere near the.
Oh they can try.
No.
We stand together
and we die together.
We can't let you do this.
What?
Hear the guy out.
[six] i know you don't like it,
believe me, i like it even less.
We show we're crazy enough
to take out one of their ships,
Ferrous corp. Will be less incld
To risk another one around here.
Think about it,
you know i'm right.
I regret that i didn't
have the opportunity
To get to know
you better.
I think we could
have been good friends.
Bet you regret not teaching me
how to fly that shuttle now huh.
[three and six laughing]
Do i ever.
Take care of them.
You're the only one on that ship
with a lick of sense.
If we help you, can you
guarantee our safety?
It's bubba time.
Who's bubba?
[three setting up gun]
this is bubba.
[gun charging up]
What you don't name your guns?
No.
Ah well this is bubba,
this is lulu, other one's pip.
What do you name the
knife you keep in your boot?
I don't need a knife in my boot.
What do you think i am... Psych?
[pressing maurader controls]
[clicking maurader controls]
[gun clicks]
[hagen] step away
from the console.
Easy, friend.
You were gonna leave us
here to die weren't you.
No.
I can save us all,
if you let me.
You're a liar.
You and your friends
can't save us.
[ferrous corp.. Soldier]
of course he can't.
I'm the only one
who can save you now.
[keeley]
this is keeley, come in!
What's happening out there?
Two ferrous corp..
Shuttles just touched down!
He didn't make it.
We'll hold them back
as long as we can!
Keeley, listen to me.
If you're in danger
of being overrun,
You need to fall back
to the reactor room.
Keeley?!
¶ intense music ¶
[semi-automatic gunfire]
rat-tat-tat-tat
Game on.
[rapid gunfire]
rat-tat-tat-tat
[shotgun blast]
bang
[rapid gun fire]
rat-tat-tat-tat
[shelling casings crash to the ]
Run!
[rapid gunfire]
rat-tat-tat-tat
Go! Go!
[three grunting]
[rapid gunfire]
rat-tat-tat-tat
[gun clicks out of ammo]
[pistol blast]
[rapid gunfire]
rat-tat-tat-tat
[knife unsheaths]
[shotgun blast]
bam
[rapid gunfire]
rat-tat-tat-tat
[swords slicing]
swish-swoosh-swish-swoosh
[thomas groans]
[mireille gasping]
No.
Hey!
Hey! Stand down, now!
Or i execute your friend.
What do you think?
I think he's gonna
kill him anyway.
Yeah.
They're powering weapons.
Shields.
[weapons launching]
boom-boom-boom
They've arrived.
Deliverance,
this is the raza.
I'm in the company
of two cruiser class vessels
Under the flag
of the mikkei combine.
[nieman] raza,
what the hell is this?
You're outnumbered.
Stand down or face
the consequences.
Blaze of glory?
Ah, what the hell?
One, two, ahhhh!
[six] ahhhh!
They're gone.
We did it.
We did it!
Commander nieman,
allow me to introduce
Commanders sakey and truffault
of the mcs sujin and murakami.
How dare you
interject yourselves
Into a private dispute?
Well it's a good thing we did,
For the sake of
those poor miners.
We were responding to
an unprovoked attack--
Irrelevant.
That planet and its inhabitants
now fall under the protectorate
Of the mikkei combine,
Meaning, you and your troops
are in violation of galactic
charter.
This planet is an
independent mining colony.
Not anymore it's not.
We had a deal!
I got a better offer.
I'm sorry about nassan.
He was a good leader.
I-i don't really know what
we're gonna do without him.
Someone else will step up.
Yeah.
But you know we could--
we could use some extra help.
Look i know
it's not glamorous,
And i know it's not like
being among the stars but...
You know, there are some things
down here that aren't so bad.
Yeah, i can see that.
I just i think it's nice
to have a place
Where you know you belong.
I know.
For me right now, i think
that place is up on that ship.
[six]
hey.
Lets go!
Good luck.
You too.
I knew ferrous corp. Wasn't
the only player in the galaxy
So, after we jumped,
i had the android plot a course
To the nearest
mikkei outpost.
Once there, i took
the liberty of making a deal
On the miners' behalf.
How much is
mikkei paying?
Nothing.
I gave them
a 99 year lease for free.
[six scoffs] how the hell
does that help the miners?
They'll never
agree to that.
They already have.
They're signing
the deal as we speak.
See, their mistake was trying
to negotiate with one combine.
The only way to
handle these bastards
Is to play them
against each other.
It's a stalemate.
The planet is worthless without
the rights to the asteroid belt,
And the asteroid belt
is worthless
Without the rights
to the planet.
For the price of filing
some legal papers,
Mikkei gets to screw
a major rival out of a big scor.
And if ferrous ever caves
and offers them some kind
Of revenue sharing deal,
the miners get 20 percent.
I'm sorry i didn't get a chance
to tell you before
But i couldn't chance
an intercept
Of ship-to-surface
communication.
Ah, we weren't worried.
I had a feeling
you'd come back for us.
Mhmm.
Okay. So what's next?
Well, nearest space station
is a couple of days out.
We head there, refuel,
resupply, and then decide.
In the meanwhile, we can
spend some quality time
Getting to know each other.
Sweet.
[footsteps]
[two knocking]
[two]
am i interrupting?
[five]
no.
I'm just drawing.
Can i ask you a question?
Sure.
Earlier today, you said someone
Was responsible
for wiping our memories.
Un huh.
Why do you think that?
I don't think... I know.
And how do you know?
I remember.
Remember what, exactly?
[five] waking up
in the middle of the night
And uploading the program
into the stasis core.
Planting the virus while
everyone else was sleeping.
[two]
you remember doing this?
[five] no, not me.
It was someone else.
[two]
who?
[three] grunting and banging]
[five] it's like i'm remembering
it for them.
[two] and do you remember why
this person wiped our memories?
Yeah.
Because we're dangerous.